Key
Use in phase 1
	CAM use/beliefs
	Vaccine attitudes/behaviors
	
	Locus of health control
	Demographics
Use in phase 2
	Science attitudes
	Media use? Info seeking?
	Magical beliefs/conspiracy beliefs
Use in phase 3
	TBD
	Cognitive: biases and epistemic frameworks
	Evaluate social media posts
CAM use/beliefs

R-ICAM-Q - Bryden & Browne (2016)


Providers
Homeopath
Herbalist
Spiritual healer
Naturopath
Body manipulation therapies (e.g. Bowen/Reiki) 
Therapeutic massage
[add local variants]


Products
Herbs/herbal medicine
Vitamins/minerals
Homeopathic remedies
Non-fluoridated or non-chlorinated water for health purposes
[add local variants]


Self-help practices
Meditation
Yoga or Tai Chi
Detoxification or cleansing diet 
Relaxation techniques or visualization 
Aromatherapy
Any form of traditional or spiritual healing ceremony
[add local variants]

Other CAM - custom
Check-list
[Bach flower remedies, Orthomolecular medicine, Ayurveda, Cannabis oils/CBT',  'Acupuncture/pressure, Crystal healing, Traditional Chinese Medicine, Biofeedback, Osteopathy, Curanderismo, Shiatsu, Megadose vitamins, Distance healing, Anthroposophic medicine, Colloidal silver, Cupping, Reflexology, Dry needling, Ear candling, Hypnotherapy, Mind-body interventions, Oil pulling, Ozone therapy',  'Bowen therapy, Craniosacral therapy, HarmonyWave Therapy] (I added a fake one, HarmonyWave Therapy, as a data quality check)

Source of health treatments - custom
(motivated by finding in https://doi.org/10.3390/vaccines11040839; include if at least one CAM modality selected in any preceding question) 


You indicated that you have used the following forms of complementary and alternative treatments: [list selection from previous questions]. Would you say that the above are the main source of treatment or health care? Or do you rely more on conventional medicines?


The complementary/alternative medicine(s) listed above represent:
1. The only source of my health care
2. The majority of my health care
3. Roughly half of my health care
4. A minority of my health care
5. Not a source of my health care

CAM beliefs inventory - Bishop et al. (2005)


1. Treatments should have no negative side effects
2. It is important to me that treatments are non-toxic
3. Treatments should only use natural ingredients
4. It is important for treatments to boost my immune system
5. Treatments should enable my body to heal itself
6. Treatments should increase my natural ability to stay healthy


7. Treatment providers should treat patients as equal partners
8. Patients should take an active role in their treatment
9. Treatment providers should make all decisions about treatment (r)
10. Treatment providers should help patients make their own decisions about treatment 
11. Treatment providers should control what is talked about during consultations (r)


12. Health is about harmonizing your body, mind and spirit
13. Imbalances in a person’s life are a major cause of illness
14. Treatments should concentrate only on symptoms rather than the whole persona (r) 
15. Treatments should focus on people’s overall well-being
16. I think my body has a natural ability to heal itself
17. There is no need for treatments to be concerned with natural healing powers (r) 
18. I prefer natural remedies to medicine
19. Treatments should make use of modern scientific technology (r)
20. Health is about more than just keeping your body fit

Rejection of CAM - Lewandowsky et al. (2020)

Complementary medicine can be dangerous in that it may prevent people getting proper treatment.
Complementary medicine builds up the body’s own defences, so leading to a permanent cure. (R)
Homoeopathy has been shown again and again to be ineffective as a cure for anything.
Complementary medicine has often saved the lives of patients who were already given up by conventional doctors. (R)
Complementary medicine is superior to conventional medicine in treating chronic ailments such as allergies, headaches, and back pains. (R)

CAM health belief questionnaire - Lie & Boker (2004)

1. The physical and mental health are maintained by an underlying energy or vital force.
2. Health and disease are a reflection of balance between positive life-enhancing forces and negative destructive forces.
3. The body is essentially self-healing and the task of a health care provider is to assist in the healing process.
4. A patient's symptoms should be regarded as a manifestation of a general imbalance or dysfunction affecting the whole body.
5. A patient's expectations, health beliefs and values should be integrated into the patient care process. 
6. Complementary therapies are a threat to public health.[r]
7. Treatments not tested in a scientifically recognized manner should be discouraged.[r]
8. Effects of complementary therapies are usually the result of a placebo effect.[r]
9. Complementary therapies include ideas and methods from which conventional medicine could benefit.
10. Most complementary therapies stimulate the body's natural therapeutic powers.

Holistic complementary and alternative medicine questionnaire - Hyland et al. (2003)

1. Positive thinking can help you fight off a minor illness
2. Complementary medicine should be subject to more scientific testing before it can be accepted by conventional doctors
3. When people are stressed it is important that they are careful about other aspects of their lifestyle as their body already has enough to cope with
4. Complementary medicine can be dangerous in that it may prevent people getting proper treatment
5. The symptoms of an illness can be made worse by depression
6. Complementary medicine should only be used as a last resort when conventional medicine has nothing to offer
7.  If a person experiences a series of stressful life events they are more likely to become ill
8.  It is worthwhile trying complementary medicine before going to the doctor
10. Complementary medicine should only be used in minor ailments and not in the treatment of more
serious illness
11. It is important to find a balance between work and relaxation in order to stay healthy
12. Complementary medicine builds up the body’s own defences, so leading to a permanent cure
Magical/paranormal beliefs

Magical Beliefs About Food and Health scale - Lindeman (2000)

general magical beliefs
1. An imbalance between energy currents lies behind many illnesses
2. Colours change the organism’s energy vibration in a direction that is beneficial to health
3. Plants are living beings whose energy potentials can be transmitted to human beings
4. By massaging a diseased organ’s surrogate in the sole of the foot, the organ will be restored
5. An incorrect diet makes food rot in the body
6. If we don’t somehow clean our bodies, unhealthy toxins remain in them
7. It is good to detoxify one’s body every now and then with a fast
8. An illness should be treated with a medicine that has properties similar to those of the illness
9. Since our bodies are 70 percent water, we should be eating a diet that has an approximate water content of 70 percent
10. The statement “red drinks improve haemoglobin” is probably valid

animal products as food contaminants
11. It would bother me if a restaurant served me food that had come into contact with lard, even if it had been totally removed
12. It would bother me to eat vegetarian food that had been in contact with a steak
13. Animal blood pollutes food
14. Vegetarian food is spoilt if it has been in contact with meat
15. Animal bones pollute food

animal products as personality contaminants
16. Consumption of meat makes people behave aggressively
17. Consumption of meat dulls thinking
18. In comparison to vegetarian food, consumption of meat arouses more animal instincts in people

Revised paranormal beliefs scale - Tobacyk (2004)

1. The soul continues to exist though the body may die.
2. Some individuals are able to levitate (lift) objects through mental forces.
3. Black magic really exists.
4. Black cats can bring bad luck.
5. Your mind or soul can leave your body and travel (astral projection).
6. The abominable snowman of Tibet exists.
7. Astrology is a way to accurately predict the future.
8. There is a devil.
9. Psychokinesis, the movement of objects through psychic powers, does exist.
10. Witches do exist.
11. If you break a mirror, you will have bad luck.
12. During altered states, such as sleep or trances, the spirit can leave the body.
13. The Loch Ness monster of Scotland exists.
14. The horoscope accurately tells a person’s future.
15. I believe in God
16. A person’s thoughts can influence the movement of a physical object.
17. Through the use of formulas and incantations, it is possible to cast spells on persons. 18. The number “13” is unlucky.
19. Reincarnation does occur.
20. There is life on other planets.
21. Some psychics can accurately predict the future.
22. There is a heaven and a hell.
23. Mind reading is not possible.
24. There are actual cases of witchcraft.
25. It is possible to communicate with the dead.
26. Some people have an unexplained ability to predict the future. 

Superstitious beliefs - Griffiths et al. (2018)

Knowing a person's star-sign can give extra insight into their personality characteristics.
Reading horoscopes can help people to anticipate what will happen in the future.
The alignment of stars and planets when you are born can influence your personality or your destiny.
Sometimes dreams can give us signs and guidance about current or future events in our lives, or the lives of the people around us.
The power of our thoughts can sometimes influence the physical world (e.g. thinking about a person might cause them to telephone us, or thinking positive thoughts about a person might cause good things to happen to them).
I would be uncomfortable with taking long trips on a Black Friday (a Friday that falls on the 13th of any month).
There are things that we can do to improve our luck (e.g., carrying a lucky charm or choosing our lucky number in a random draw).
'Alternative' therapies (such as homeopathic remedies, aromatherapy, reflexology, chiropractic manipulation, or therapy based on the body's energy fields) can be an effective way of treating illnesses and ailments.
Wishing or praying for something can make it more likely to happen.
If I passed a ladder I would walk around it rather than underneath it.
Certain actions can cause good luck, or prevent bad luck (e.g., knocking on wood, or throwing salt over your shoulder).
It is possible to gain information about a person's personality by analysing their handwriting.
I am interested in learning more about paranormal activity or psychic phenomena.
Recruiting people with psychic abilities can help police and detectives solve crime mysteries more effectively.
I believe in soul mates: that is, that there is someone in the world that we are destined to be with.
What happens to people is determined by fate.
I believe there is more to the workings of the universe than science can explain.
I believe in the existence of a higher being (such as a Christian God, Allah, Shiva, Waheguru, or Satan).
Prophecies can hold much information about what will happen in the future.
I believe that things like palm-reading, fortune-telling or séances are more than forms of entertainment - they can offer us guidance by telling us things that we do not already know.
I find myself to be more superstitious than most people I know.
When making important life decisions I am more likely to call on a 'Higher Self' intuition than logic.
Through visualisation, we can attract desired people, events and opportunities into our lives.
I believe that everything happens for a reason.
Karma is a powerful source for both good and bad events in our lives.

Sheep/goats scale - Lange & Thalbourne (2002)

1. I believe in the existence of ESP.
2. I believe I have had personal experience of ESP.
3. I believe I am psychic.
4. I believe that it is possible to gain information about the future before it happens, in ways that do nor depend on rational prediction or normal sensory channels.
5. I have had at least one hunch that turned out to be correct and which (I believe) was not just a coincidence.
6. I have had at least one premonition about the future that came true and which (I believe) was not just a coincidence.
7. I have had at least one dream that came true and which (I believe) was not just a coincidence.
8. I have had at least one vision that was not an hallucination and from which I received information that I could not have otherwise gained at that time and place.
11. I believe that it is possible to gain information about the thoughts, feelings or circumstances of another person, in a way that does not depend on rational prediction or normal sensory channels.
12. I believe that it is possible to send a "mental message" to another person, or in some way influence them at a distance, by means other than the normal channels.
13. I believe I have had at least one experience of telepathy between myself and another person.
14. I believe in the existence of psychokinesis (or "PK"), that is, the direct influence of mind on a physical system, without the mediation of any known energy.
15. I believe I have personally exerted PK on at least one occasion.
16. I believe I have marked psychokinetic ability.
17. I believe that, on at least one occasion, an inexplicable (but nonrecurrent) physical event of an apparently psychokinetic origin has occurred in my presence.
18. I believe that persistent inexplicable physical disturbances, of an apparently psychokinetic origin, have occurred in my presence at some time in the past, e.g., a poltergeist.

Pseudoscience - Torres et al. (2020)

1. Radiation derived from the use of a mobile phone increases the risk of a brain tumour.
2. A positive and optimistic attitude towards life helps to prevent cancer.
3. We can learn languages listening to audio while we’re asleep.
4. Osteopathy is capable of causing the body to heal itself through the manipulation of muscles
and bones.
5. The manipulation of energies bringing hands close to the patient can cure physical and
psychological maladies.
6. Homeopathic remedies are effective as complements in the treatment of some diseases.
7. Stress is the principal cause of stomach ulcers.
8. Natural remedies, such as Bach flower remedies, help overcome emotional imbalances.
9. By means of superficial insertion of needles in specific parts of the body one can treat
problems with pain.
10. Nutritional supplements like vitamins or minerals can improve the state of one’s health and
prevent diseases.
11. Neurolinguistic programming is effective in curing mental disorders and the improvement
of quality of life in general.
12. By means of hypnosis it’s possible to discover hidden childhood traumas.
13. One’s personality can be evaluated by studying the form of their handwriting.
14. The application of magnetic fields on the body can be used to treat physical and emotional
alterations.
15. Listening to classical music, such as Mozart, makes children more intelligent.
16. Our dreams can reflect unconscious desires.
17. Exposure to Wi-Fi signals can cause symptoms such as frequent headaches, problems
sleeping or tiredness.
18. The polygraph or lie detector is a valid method for detecting if someone is lying.
19. Diets or detox therapies are effective at eliminating toxic substances from the organism.
20. It is possible to control others’ behaviour by means of subliminal messages.

Paranormal and Supernatural Beliefs scale - Dean et al. (2021)

1 The soul continues to exist after a person has died 
2 Your mind or soul can leave your body 
3 It is possible to cast spells on persons using formulas and incantations 
4 It is possible to be reincarnated 
5 Some people with psychic abilities can accurately see the future 
6 It is possible to communicate with the dead 
7 Buildings can be haunted by spirits or other supernatural entities 
8 Some psychics have helped find the bodies of murder victims through paranormal means
9 A person’s star sign can have a direct influence on their personality 
10* Reports of an apparent sixth sense are generally based on fantasies 
11 Having a dream that comes true is not just a coincidence 
12* Communicating with spirits or other supernatural entities through a Ouija board is not possible 
13 It is possible to become possessed by an evil supernatural entity 
14 It is possible to protect one’s home from spirits using protection objects and herbs 


Vaccine attitudes/behaviors

Vaccine behaviors - custom question
We would like to know whether you have had certain vaccines. As this is personal information, of course you can choose not to tell us.


Have you had a [COVID-19/flu/hepatitis-B] vaccine?
Response options: 
Yes, without hesitance
Yes, but I was initially hesitant
No, but my hesitance could be overcome in the future
No, and I refuse
I cannot take this vaccine (but would if I could)
Prefer not to answer


Has your child had a MMR vaccine?
Response options: 
Yes, without hesitance
Yes, but I was initially hesitant
No, but my hesitance could be overcome in the future
No, and I refuse
My child cannot take this vaccine (but would if he/she could)
Prefer not to answer

5C vaccine attitudes - Betsch et al. (2018)


To what extent do the following statements reflect your beliefs about [COVID-19/flu/hepatitis-B/MMR] vaccines in general?


I am completely confident that [name] vaccines are safe. [confidence]
My [my child’s/] immune system is so strong, it also protects me [him/her/them] against [name]. [complacency1]
[name] is not so severe that I [my child] should get vaccinated. [complacency2]
Everyday stress prevents me from getting [my child] vaccinated against [name]. [constraints]
When I think about getting [name] [for my child], I weigh benefits and risks to make the best decision possible. [calculation]
When everyone is vaccinated, I don’t [my child doesn’t] have to get vaccinated, too. [r] [collective responsibility

Anti-vaccination attitudes - Lindeman et al. (2022)

1. In general, vaccines are useful (R)
2. I would vaccinate/I have vaccinated my child in accordance with the recommendations (R)
3. Vaccines can contaminate the body
4. Vaccines are a way for pharmaceutical companies to extort money
from people
5. I oppose vaccination because vaccines are not natural ways to treat diseases
6. Vaccination is safe (R)
7. The public is not told everything about the contents of vaccines
8. The disadvantages of vaccines are not openly reported
9. I could participate in a new vaccine development study (R)
10. I have refused vaccination
11. Vaccines are impure
12. Vaccines often result in serious illness
13. Vaccines put too much strain on the innate immune system
14. Vaccines can be used to benefit governments or other actors and against
ordinary people
15. We are being told that vaccines are useful, but in reality they are used
against people

Vaccine attitudes - Jolley (2014)

I feel uncertain about the potential side-effects of immunizations.
I feel uncertain about the safety of immunizations.
A large number of early vaccinations expose an infant’s immune system to avoidable risks.
Multiple vaccines overwhelm the infant’s immune system.
The side-effects of vaccinations are unforeseeable.
Vaccines lead to allergies.
I feel uncertain about the motives of those involved in immunizations (governments, pharmaceutical companies etc.).
Vaccinations cause the illnesses they are intended to protect against.

Vaccine acceptance instrument - Sarthchandra et al. (2018)

Perceived safety
1. Vaccines are safe
2. Vaccines contain mercury in dangerous amounts [R]
3. Vaccines contain dangerous ingredients [R]
4. Vaccines cause autism [R]

Perceived effectiveness and necessity
5. Some vaccines are unnecessary since they target relatively harmless diseases. [R]
6. Diseases provide better immunity than vaccines do.  [R]
7. Vaccines are effective at preventing diseases. 
8. Many of the illnesses that vaccines prevent are severe.

Acceptance of the selection and scheduling of vaccines
9. We give children the right number of vaccines. 
10. The timing of the current vaccination schedule is appropriate.
11. We give vaccines to children when they are too young.  [R]
12. We give children too many vaccines.  [R]

Positive values and affect towards vaccines
13. I'm morally opposed to vaccinating my child. [R]
14. Vaccines conflict with my belief that children should use natural products and avoid toxins.  [R]
15. Vaccines are a major advancement for humanity. 
16. Vaccines are disgusting to me.  [R]

Perceived legitimacy of authorities to require vaccines
17. The government should not force children to get vaccinated to attend school. [R]
18. My right to consent to medical treatment means that vaccinations should always be voluntary. [R]
19. To protect public health, we should follow government guidelines about vaccines.
20. It is legitimate for government to mandate vaccinations.


Vaccination attitudes examination (VAX) scale - Martin & Petrie (2017)


mistrust of vaccine benefit
I feel safe after being vaccinated [R]
I can rely on vaccines to stop serious infectious diseases [R]
I feel protected after getting vaccinated [R]


worries about unforeseen future effects
Although most vaccines appear to be safe, there may be problems that we have not yet discovered.
Vaccines can cause unforeseen problems in children.
I worry about the unknown effects of vaccines in the future.


concerns about commercial profiteering
Vaccines make a lot of money for pharmaceutical companies, but do not do much for regular people.
Authorities promote vaccination for financial gain, not for people’s health.
Vaccination programs are a big con.


preference for natural immunity
Natural immunity lasts longer than a vaccination.
Natural exposure to viruses and germs gives the safest protection.
Being exposed to diseases naturally is safer for the immune system than being exposed through vaccination.
Science attitudes
Credibility of science scale - Hartman et al. (2017)

1. People trust scientists a lot more than they should.
2. People don’t realize just how flawed a lot of scientific research really is.
3. A lot of scientific theories are dead wrong.
4. Sometimes I think we put too much faith in science.
5. Our society places too much emphasis on science.
6. I am concerned by the amount of influence that scientists have in society.

Attitudes to science scale - Sturgis & Allum (2004)

1. Science and technology make life healthier, easier and more comfortable. 
2. We depend too much on science and not enough on faith.
3. Science makes life change too fast.
4. It is not important for me to know about science in my daily life.

Deference to scientific authority - Brossard & Nisbet 

1. Scientists know best what is good for the public.
2. It is important for scientists to get research done even if they displease
people by doing it.5
3. Scientists should do what they think is best, even if they have to persuade
people that it is right.6
4. Scientists should make the decisions about the type of scientific research
on agricultural biotechnology.

Munster Epistemic Trust Inventory - Hendriks et al. (2015)

Participants given description of scientist, asked to rate him along following dimensions

Expertise:
competent–incompetent
intelligent–unintelligent
well educated–poorly educated
professional–unprofessional
experienced–inexperienced
qualified–unqualified

Integrity:
sincere–insincere
honest–dishonest
just–unjust
fair–unfair

Benevolence
moral–immoral
ethical–unethical
responsible–irresponsible
considerate–inconsiderate

Negative Perceptions of Science Scale - Morgan (2018)


Science as Corrupt
Scientists are often dishonest about their research findings. 
Scientists often falsify data to manipulate results or findings. 
Science has been co-opted by corporate interests.
Most scientists are politically biased.
Scientists are typically arrogant people.


Science as Onerous
Science is too complicated to understand.
Scientific results are presented in ways that are too complex to understand. 
Scientific jargon is too complex to understand.
I don’t care to know the answers to scientific questions.
Scientific discovery makes me nervous.


Science as Heretical
Religious scriptures (e.g., The Bible) are the ultimate explanation for how the world works.
God is the ultimate way of knowing, not science.
If people trusted the Scriptures, they would know all they need to know. 
Religious doctrine tells us all we need to about know about the world. 
The Scriptures are sufficient to explain everything that is important.


Science as Limited
Science cannot explain everything.
The scientific method is limited.
Scientific principles do not always make sense. 
Science produces many contradictory findings. 
Science has significant limitations.

Psychological distance to science - Veckalov et al. (2022)

Temporal distance
1. Most of today’s science is concerned with solving problems of the distant future.
2. Science is mainly focused on the distant future.
3. Scientists spend most of their time working on issues
of the distant future.
4. We will see the impact of science more in the distant
future than we do in the present.

Social distance
1. The prospect of working as a scientist seems beyond my reach.
2. I rarely interact with scientists in real life.
3. Scientists are very different from me.
4. It would be difficult for me to meet with a scientist.

Hypothetical distance
1. Scientific knowledge is a reliable way to solve important issues. R
2. Science provides accurate information about the world we live in. R
3. We can rely on science to deliver results that can be implemented in real life. R
4. I can see the effects of science, whether positive or negative, on the world. R

Spatial distance
1. Science and scientific research play a big role in my local area. R
2. Scientific research really contributes to my local area. R
3. People from my local area don’t become scientists. 
4. Very few scientists live or work in my town.

Science and faith mindset - Kitchens & Phillips (2021)

I trust that God (or gods) can solve the major problems of humanity.
Relying on information from God (or gods) is a great way to really understand the universe.
Ultimately, God (or gods) is the only infallible source of knowledge and truth.
God (or gods) offers excellent explanations for reality.
Humanity has God (or gods) to thank for the good things in life we enjoy.

Trust in scientific innovation - Kam (2005)

(1) Science will solve our social problems like crime and mental illness.
(2) One trouble with science is that it makes our way of life change too
fast.
(3) Scientists always seem to be prying into things that they really ought to
stay out of.
(4) One of the bad effects of science is that it breaks down people’s ideas
of right and wrong
Cognitive style/biases
Comprehensive thinking styles questionnaire - Newton et al. (2021)

Preference for intuitive thinking
PIT7 I often go by my instincts when deciding on a course of action.
PIT3 When I make decisions, I tend to rely on my intuition.
PIT5 Using my "gut-feelings" usually works well for me in figuring out problems in my life.
PIT1 I like to rely on my intuitive impressions.
PIT2 I believe in trusting my hunches.
PIT6 Intuition is the best guide in making decisions.

Close minded thinking
CMT17 Either something is true or it is false - there is nothing in-between.
CMT18 There is no middle ground between what is true and what is false.
CMT8 In my experience, the truth is often black and white.
CMT15 The truth does not change.
CMT10 Truth is never relative.
CMT2 I think there are many wrong ways, but only one right way, to almost anything.

Preference for effortful thinking
PET3 I try to avoid situations that require thinking in depth about something.
PET2 Thinking is not my idea of an enjoyable activity.
PET1 I’m not that good at figuring out complicated problems.
PET4 I am not a very analytical thinker.
PET5 Reasoning things out carefully is not one of my strong points.
PET6 Thinking hard and for a long time about something gives me little satisfaction.

Actively open minded thinking
AOT1 It is important to be loyal to your beliefs even when evidence is brought to bear against them.
AOT20 Even if there is concrete evidence against what you believe to be true, it is OK to maintain cherished beliefs.
AOT17 Just because evidence conflicts with my current beliefs does not mean my beliefs are wrong.
AOT18 There may be evidence that goes against what you believe but that does not mean you have to change them.
AOT21 Regardless of the topic, what you believe to be true is more important than evidence against your beliefs.
AOT6 Whether something feels true is more important than evidence.

Bullshit receptivity - Pennycook et al. (2015)

[not at all profound -- very profound]
Hidden meaning transforms unparalleled abstract beauty.
Good health imparts reality to subtle creativity.
Wholeness quiets infinite phenomena.
The future explains irrational facts. 
Imagination is inside exponential space time events.
We are in the midst of a self-aware blossoming of being that will align us with the nexus itself.
Consciousness consists of frequencies of quantum energy. 
“Quantum” means an unveiling of the unrestricted. 
Consciousness is the growth of coherence, and of us. 
We are in the midst of a high-frequency blossoming of interconnectedness that will give us access to the quantum soup itself. 
Today, science tells us that the essence of nature is joy.

Psychological reactance - Hong (2018)

8. I become angry when my freedom of choice is restricted.
6. I become frustrated when I am unable to make free and independent decisions.
10. I am contented only when I am acting of my own free will.
4. The thought of being dependent on others aggravates me.

3. When something is prohibited, I usually think "That's exactly what I'm going to do"
1. Regulations trigger a sense of resistance in me
2. I find contradicting others stimulating.

14. It disappoints me to see others submitting to society's standards and rules.
13. When someone forces me to do something, I feel like doing the opposite.
11. I resist the attempts of others to influence me.
12. It makes me angry when another person is held up as a role model for me to follow.

5. I consider advice from others to be an intrusion.
9. Advice and recommendations usually induce me to do just the opposite.
7. It irritates me when someone points out things which are obvious.

Susceptibility to confirmation bias - Rassin (2008)

1. I only need a little information to reach a good decision
2. My first impression usually seems to be correct
3. I usually quickly know the ins and outs of the matter
4. Some things are simply the way they are, regardless of other people's counterarguments
5. Sometimes, I know things before there is actual proof of them
6. I usually trust my intuition
7. The first blow is half the battle
8. Generally, half a word is enough for me
9. If my reasoning and the physical evidence are in contradiction, I tend to give more weight to my reasoning than to the evidence
10. Once I have a certain idea, I can hardly be brought to change my mind

Tolerance of ambiguity - McDonald (1970)

1. A problem has little attraction for me if I don’t think it has a solution [R]
2. I am just a little uncomfortable with people unless I feel that I can understand their behavior
[R]
3. There’s a right way and a wrong way to do almost everything [R]
4. I would rather bet 1 to 6 on a long shot than 3 to 1 on a probable winner
5. The way to understand complex problems is to be concerned with their larger aspects
instead of breaking them into smaller pieces
6. I get pretty anxious when I’m in a social situation over which I have no control [R]
7. Practically every problem has a solution [R]
8. It bothers me when I am unable to follow another person’s train of thought [R]
9. I have always felt there is a clear difference between right and wrong [R]
10. It bothers me when I don’t know how other people react to me [R]
11. Nothing gets accomplished in this world unless you stick to some basic rules [R]
12. If I were a doctor, I would prefer the uncertainties of a psychiatrist to the clear and definite
work of someone like a surgeon or X-ray specialist
13. Vague and impressionistic pictures really have little appeal for me [R]
14. If I were a scientist, it would bother me that my work would never be completed (because
science will always make new discoveries) [R]
15. Before an examination, I feel much less anxious if I know how many questions there will be
[R]
16. The best part of working a jigsaw puzzle is putting in that last piece [R]
17. Sometimes I rather enjoy going against the rules and doing things I’m not supposed to do
18. I don’t like to work on a problem unless there is a possibility of coming out with a clear-cut
and unambiguous answer [R]
19. I like to fool around with new ideas, even if they turn out later to be a total waste of time
20. Perfect balance is the essence of all good composition [R]

Causal illusions - Van der Waal (2018)

[Rate reported associations as genuinely causal vs not causal]

1. It has been shown that an increase in the number of storks is associated with an increase in the number of children.
2. It has been shown that an increase in people’s income is associated with more visits to the hospital.
3. It has been shown that an increase in body lice is associated with an increase in health.
4. It has been shown that an increase in chocolate consumption is associated with an increase in Nobel prize winners in a country.
5. It has been shown that an increase in the amount of US spending on science, space and technology is associated with an increase in suicides by hanging, strangulation and suffocation.
6. It has been shown that an increase in the average global temperature is associated with an increase in the national science foundation budget.
Epistemic framework
Epistemic beliefs - Garrett et al. (2017)

I trust my gut to tell me what’s true and what’s not
I trust my initial feelings about the facts
My initial impressions are almost always right
I can usually feel when a claim is true or false even if I can’t explain how I know
Evidence is more important than whether something feels true 
A hunch needs to be confirmed with data
I trust the facts, not my instincts, to tell me what is true
I need to be able to justify my beliefs with evidence
Facts are dictated by those in power
What counts as truth is defined by power 
Scientific conclusions are shaped by politics “Facts” depend on their political context

Epistemic curiosity - Litman et al. (2003)

38 Enjoy learning about subjects which are unfamiliar
37 Fascinating to learn new information
45 Enjoy exploring new ideas
48 Learn something new/like to find out more
5 Enjoy discussing abstract concepts

29 See a complicated piece of machinery/ask someone how it works 
28 New kind of arithmetic problem/enjoy imagining solutions
3 Incomplete puzzle/try and imagine the final solution 
18 Interested in discovering how things work
55 Riddle/interested in trying to solve it

Importance of rationality - Stahl et al. (2016)

1. It is important to me personally to be skeptical about claims that are not backed up by evidence. 
2. It is important to me personally to remain rational and levelheaded even in heated arguments.
3. It is important to me personally to examine traditionally held beliefs using logic and evidence.
4. It is important to me personally that I can justify my beliefs using rational arguments and evidence. 
5. It is important to me personally to critically examine my long-held beliefs.
6. It is important to me personally to be a rational person

Criteria for belief - Metz et al. (2018)

The Bible says it is true 
I feel it is true in my heart. 
My parents told me it is true
My clergy/minister/priest said it is true. 
Belief that it is true encourages ethical behavior. 
There is scientific consensus that it is true
There is good scientific evidence for it.
A scientist said it is true.

Personal epistemology - Hofer (2000)

- certainty
Answers to questions in this field change as experts gather more information (R)
All experts in this field understand the field in the same way.
Truth is unchanging on this subject.
In this subject, most work has only one right answer.
Principles in this field are unchanging.
All professors in this field would probably come up with the same answers to questions in this field.
In this subject, it is good to question the ideas presented. (R)
Most of what is true in this subject is already known.

- justification: personal
First-hand experience is the best way of knowing something in this field.
I am more likely to accept the ideas of someone with firsthand experience than the ideas of researchers in this field.
Correct answers in this field are more a matter of opinion than fact. 
There is really no way to determine whether someone has the right answer in this field.

- source: authority
Sometimes you just have to accept answers from the experts in this field, even if you don't understand them.
If you read something in a textbook for this subject, you can be sure it's true.
If my personal experience conflicts with ideas in the textbook, the book is probably right.
I am most confident that I know something when I know what the experts think. 

- attainment of truth
Experts in this field can ultimately get to the truth.
If scholars try hard enough, they can find the answers to almost anything. 

Ad hoc items

I believe that most important knowledge comes from spiritual experiences (Browne et al., 2014)

I know best what works for me (? Ophelia mentioned in slack)
Health

General health and Chronic conditions - mainly custom questions (questions about disability from McDermott & Turk, 2011)


We would like to know about your health status and attitudes. As some of these questions are about personal information, of course you can choose not to tell us.


In general, how is your physical health?
[Prefer not to say, poor, fair, good, very good, excellent]


In general, how is your mental health?
[Prefer not to say, poor, fair, good, very good, excellent]


Do you use disability-related equipment, such as a wheelchair, walker, TDD, augmentative device?
[Yes, no, prefer not to say]


Do you identify yourself as having a disability or have you received services because of a disability?
[Yes, no, prefer not to say]


Over the last 6 weeks, what level of pain did you experience on average?
[prefer not to say; 0 = no pain to 10=worst pain imaginable]


Over the last 6 weeks, what level of pain did you experience at the worst point?
[prefer not to say; 0 = no pain to 10=worst pain imaginable]


Do you have any persistent/chronic conditions? Choose as many categories as apply (or choose 'none' or 'prefer not to say'). We have provided some illustrations for each category, but there are plenty of other examples, so you can select a category even if you don't see your condition listed there. Some conditions could fit in multiple categories and we leave this to your best judgment.


(NB: participants select broad categories from this list. They do not respond with specific conditions)
[None,
Prefer not to say,
Cancer (any type, whether current or in remission),
Heart/circulation (e.g., heart disease, anemia, stroke, high cholesterol / blood pressure, ...),
Lungs (e.g., asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, emphysema, ...),
Bones/joints/muscles (e.g., lower back pain, arthritis, osteoporosis, knee problems, carpal tunnel syndrome, ...),
Urinary/reproductive (e.g., chronic kidney disease, recurrent UTI, endometriosis, enlarged prostate, ...),
Digestion (e.g., peptic ulcer, irritable bowel syndrome, Crohn's, celiac, cirrhosis, ...),
Endocrine (e.g., diabetes, polycystic ovary syndrome, hyper- /hypothyroidism, obesity, ...),
Skin (e.g., eczema, psoriasis, ...),
Neurological (e.g., Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Multiple Sclerosis, migraines, ...),
Mental (e.g., depression, bipolar disorder, anxiety disorders, schizophrenia, ...),
Viruses/bacteria (e.g., hepatitis B/C, HIV/AIDS, Lyme disease, long Covid, ...),
Substance dependency (e.g., alcohol dependency, drug dependency, ...),
Other chronic co6ditions]

Multidimensional Health Locus of Control - Wallston et al. (1978)


Internal
1. If I get sick, it is my own behavior which determines how soon I get well again.
6. I am in control of my health.
8. When I get sick I am to blame. 
12. The main thing which affects my health is what I myself do.
13. If I take care of myself, I can avoid illness.
17. If I take the right actions, I can stay healthy.


Powerful others
3. Having regular contact with my physician is the best way for me to avoid illness.
5. Whenever I don't feel well, I should consult a medically trained professional.
7. My family has a lot to do with my becoming sick or staying healthy. 
10. Health professionals control my health. 
14. When I recover from an illness, it's usually because other people (for example, doctors, nurses, family, friends) have been taking good care of me. 
18. Regarding my health, I can only do what my doctor tells me to do. 


Chance
2. No matter what I do, if I am going to get sick, I will get sick
4. Most things that affect my health happen to me by accident.
9. Luck plays a big part in determining how soon I will recover from an illness. 
11. My good health is largely a matter of good fortune. 
15. No matter what I do, I'm likely to get sick.
16. If it's meant to be, I will stay healthy. 
Demographics


What is your gender? 
[Man, woman, nonbinary, prefer not to answer]


What is your age?


What is your highest completed education level?
[No schooling completed,
Primary education (age: 5–10),
Secondary education (age: 11–17),
University undergraduate degree/professional equivalent,
Postgraduate degree,
Prefer not to say]


Do you have any children younger than 12?
[Yes, no, prefer not to say]


Do you have any children aged 13 to 17?
[Yes, no, prefer not to say]


Political ideology (liberal to conservative)
[Strongly liberal, Liberal, Equally liberal or conservative, Conservative, Strongly conservative, These options don\'t describe my beliefs, Prefer not to say]


